Booking Engine 2.0 Documentation

Terms:

PMS = property management system (ex. Homeaway, Escapia, Barefoot,etc)

Document:

The purpose of this document is to document the features and functionality of our latest booking engine which can be viewed at cms2.icnd.net.

New features:

The main differences between BE 1.0 and 2.0 are:

1. No more advanced search page

2. Search Results

	- The search results page uses a 2 column layout with properties on the left and a map on the right.

	- The refine search has been moved from the left side to the top 
	
	- As you hover over each property on the left, the location marker on the right increases in size and changes color.
	
	- You can view your search results in 2 additional views: grid view (which removes the map) and map view (which removes the grid of properties).
	
	- The map shows all units returned by the search results at all times.
	
	- The property grid uses infinite scroll; as you move down the page another 12 properties is loaded into view.
	
	- Users can click on the heart icon in the top right corner of each property photo to add/remove that unit from their favorites
	
	- Users have the option to create an account which contains all their favs and most recent bookings.
	
	- The property detail page and checkout page now open in a new tab
	
	- Clients can manage the list of Amenities in the More Filters drop down in the admin area under Manage Booking Engine -> Amenities
	
3. Property Detail page

	- Features a large hero image at the top; users can toggle between a map or photo gallery.
	
	- The different sections of the page use a sticky nav and follow you down the page (Description, Calendar, Rates, etc)
	
	- The date selector is located on the right side of the page and follows you down the page
	
	- Click the arrow icon in the top right corner to share the property on social media or send to a friend using the contact form.
	
	- Specials - uses a dummy special on cms2.icnd.net but will adjust on your dev site if special exists
	
	- View tour - only shows on cms2.icnd.net for demo purposes; adjust if your client uses virtual tours 

4. Inside the booking folder, the company logo is minified and all header images removed. We also use a minified footer with basic contact methods.

5. Instead of having an entire booking engine for each PMS, we have a common booking engine layout that uses standard naming conventions. 

In the 'components' folder, you will find the following 3 files:

Escapia.cfc
Homeaway.cfc
Barefoot.cfc

The application file will use the correct component based on the specific project/client you are working on.

The .cfc contains all the PMS specific functions you need for the entire booking engine; if you are working on a project other than those 3 vendors, you will need to
create a new .cfc and use the same function names. 

6. There are several places in the core code that use CFIF statements to display data based on the PMS you are using. Example:

<cfif settings.booking.pms eq 'Escapia'>
	do this
<cfelse>
	do that
</cfif>

You might need to update that CFIF statement if you are working with a new PMS.

7. In the admin area, the client will now have the ability to view all users who created an account on the website (see Guest Focus Members)

8. Each PMS works a bit differently in the search results; here are the 3 most common vendors we integrate with and how the data is used:


Escapia:

Dates - use the API

Guests - use API

Bedrooms - use API

Must Haves - results-search-query-common.cfm

Price Range - use API

Amenities - results-search-query-common.cfm

Unit Type - results-search-query-common.cfm

Area - results-search-query-common.cfm


Barefoot:

Dates - use the API

Guests - results-search-query-common.cfm

Bedrooms - results-search-query-common.cfm

Must Haves - results-search-query-common.cfm

Price Range - results-search-query-common.cfm

Amenities - results-search-query-common.cfm

Unit Type - results-search-query-common.cfm

Area - results-search-query-common.cfm



Homeway:

Dates - results-search-query.cfm

Guests - results-search-query-common.cfm

Bedrooms - results-search-query-common.cfm

Must Haves - results-search-query-common.cfm

Price Range - results-search-query-common.cfm

Amenities - results-search-query-common.cfm

Unit Type - results-search-query-common.cfm

Area - results-search-query-common.cfm


9. Book Now - the property information and summary of fees has been moved to the left column

10. Javascripts - the JS files have been broken down into 3 main files to help you find the code even faster.  global.js, property.js and results.js 

property.js and results.js contain scripts that are contextual and only relate to those pages; global.js has everything else.

11. On the PDP, the Send to Friend, Submit a Review and Submit an FAQ form all have Google reCaptcha installed to reduce spam.


